# T5 Service - User and Game Service

The T5 service manages the player-facing side of the system, allowing players to start and play matches, view their
current status as a player, and analyze the history of completed games.

The component implements a Redis cache to allow a player who has left a match to resume it later. For each player, the
system maintains one active session per game mode.

## User Interface Features

The graphical interface provides a home page where the player can:

- Start a new match by selecting from the available game modes;
- Change the current language from the available options;
- View their current player status, including experience points and earned achievements;
- Review a history of completed matches, including information such as the class under test, the chosen opponent, the
  achieved code coverage score, and whether the match was won or lost.

## Game Flow

After selecting a game mode, the player chooses:

- The class under test they want to work on;
- The opponent to face, based on:
    - Type (i.e., the tool or entity that generated the opponent);
    - Difficulty, chosen among `Easy`, `Medium`, or `Hard`.

In the current version, only for the `Single Match` mode, the player can specify a maximum duration (default: 120
minutes) to complete the match. Once the timer expires the player can either submit the code written up to that point (
without compiling) or be automatically evaluated based on the last compilation attempt.

### Match progression

During the game, there are no compilation limits or penalties. Players may compile their code at any time and as many
times as needed.

Each compilation triggers:

- A request to the T7 service, which compiles the code and returns JaCoCo code coverage metrics;
- Logging of the test code and metrics to the shared volume `VolumeT0`, for traceability and auditing.

For each compilation, the player receives:

- The outcome of the Maven compilation along with the code coverage metrics generated by JaCoCo;
- The corresponding metrics obtained by the selected opponent for comparison.

### Submitting the Solution

At any time, the player may submit their solution to end the match. The outcome (win or loss) is determined based on
their score and the selected game mode. Upon submission, the latest compilation attempt will be recompiled to also
retrieve EvoSuite metrics via a request to the T8 service. If the compilation is successful, both the coverage and
EvoSuite metrics will be obtained and evaluated alongside the corresponding results of the selected opponent.

